perftest: init v8.5.0 LTS perftest general-mode vs tuning-mode result (#19558)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/v8.5-performance-benchmarking-with-sysbench.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud Sysbench Performance Test Report for TiDB v8.5.0
summary: Introduce the Sysbench performance test results for a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster with the TiDB version of v8.5.0.
---

# TiDB Cloud Sysbench Performance Test Report for TiDB v8.5.0

This document provides the Sysbench performance test steps and results for a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster with the TiDB version of v8.5.0. This report can also be used as a reference for the performance of TiDB Self-Managed v8.5.0 clusters.

## Test overview

This test aims at showing the Sysbench performance of TiDB v8.5.0 in the Online Transactional Processing (OLTP) scenario.

## Test environment

### TiDB cluster

The test is conducted on a TiDB cluster with the following settings:

> - **Cluster type**: [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated)
> - **Cluster version**: v8.5.0
> - **Cloud provider**: AWS (us-west-2)
> - **Cluster configuration**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster type: [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated)
- Cluster version: v8.5.0
- Cloud provider: AWS (us-west-2)
- Cluster configuration:
```

> | Node type | Node size | Node quantity | Node storage |
> |:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
> | TiDB      | 16 vCPU, 32 GiB | 2 | N/A |
> | TiKV      | 16 vCPU, 64 GiB | 3 | 1000 GiB |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | Node type | Node size | Node quantity | Node storage |
    |:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
    | TiDB      | 16 vCPU, 32 GiB | 2 | N/A |
    | TiKV      | 16 vCPU, 64 GiB | 3 | 1000 GiB |
```

### Parameter configuration

> **Note:**
>
> For TiDB Cloud, to modify the TiDB component parameters of your cluster, you can contact [PingCAP Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) for help.

> **General mode parameters and variables:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### General mode configuration
```

The system variable [`tidb_session_plan_cache_size`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/system-variables#tidb_session_plan_cache_size-new-in-v710) controls the maximum number of plans that can be cached. The default value is `100`. For each workload, this document conducts tests with `tidb_session_plan_cache_size` set to `1000`:

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_session_plan_cache_size = 1000;
```

> **Tuning mode parameters and variables:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Tuning mode configuration
```

The following are general configurations for tuning mode:

- TiDB parameters:

    ```yaml
    [performance]
    concurrently-init-stats = true
    force-init-stats = true
    lite-init-stats = false

    [pessimistic-txn]
    max-retry-count = 15

    [tikv-client]
    region-cache-ttl = 1200
    ```

- TiKV parameters:

    ```yaml
    [server]
    concurrent-send-snap-limit = 64
    concurrent-recv-snap-limit = 64
    snap-io-max-bytes-per-sec = "400MB"

    [raftstore]
    store-io-pool-size = 1

    [raft-engine]
    prefill-for-recycle = true

    [rocksdb.titan]
    enabled = true
    [rocksdb.defaultcf.titan]
    min-blob-size = "1KB"
    blob-file-compression = "zstd"

    [storage.flow-control]
    l0-files-threshold = 60
    ```

> - TiDB variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB system variables:
```

    ```sql

>     SET global tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size=200;
>     SET global tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache=on;
>     SET global tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt=on;
>     SET global tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=on;
>     SET global tidb_opt_derive_topn=on;
>     SET global tidb_opt_ordering_index_selectivity_threshold=0.0001;
>     SET global tidb_runtime_filter_mode=LOCAL;
>     SET global tidb_opt_enable_mpp_shared_cte_execution=on;
>     SET global tidb_rc_read_check_ts=on;
>     SET global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
>     SET global tidb_enable_historical_stats=off;
>     SET global tidb_analyze_skip_column_types="json,blob,mediumblob,longblob,mediumtext,longtext";
>     SET global tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan=on;
>     SET global tidb_max_chunk_size=128;
>     SET @@global.tidb_enable_stmt_summary=0;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SET GLOBAL tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size=200;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_derive_topn=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_ordering_index_selectivity_threshold=0.0001;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_runtime_filter_mode=LOCAL;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_enable_mpp_shared_cte_execution=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_rc_read_check_ts=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_historical_stats=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_analyze_skip_column_types="json,blob,mediumblob,longblob,mediumtext,longtext";
    SET GLOBAL tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan=on;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_max_chunk_size=128;
    SET @@GLOBAL.tidb_enable_stmt_summary=0;
```

>     set global tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size=200;
>     set global tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache=on;
>     set global tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt=on;
>     set global tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=on;
>     set global tidb_opt_derive_topn=on;
>     set global tidb_opt_ordering_index_selectivity_threshold=0.0001;
>     set global tidb_runtime_filter_mode=LOCAL;
>     set global tidb_opt_enable_mpp_shared_cte_execution=on;
>     set global tidb_rc_read_check_ts=on;
>     set global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
>     set global tidb_enable_historical_stats=off;
>     set global tidb_analyze_skip_column_types="json,blob,mediumblob,longblob,mediumtext,longtext";
>     set global tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan=on;
>     set global tidb_max_chunk_size=128;
>     set @@global.tidb_enable_stmt_summary=0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SET global tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size=200;
    SET global tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache=on;
    SET global tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt=on;
    SET global tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern=on;
    SET global tidb_opt_derive_topn=on;
    SET global tidb_opt_ordering_index_selectivity_threshold=0.0001;
    SET global tidb_runtime_filter_mode=LOCAL;
    SET global tidb_opt_enable_mpp_shared_cte_execution=on;
    SET global tidb_rc_read_check_ts=on;
    SET global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
    SET global tidb_enable_historical_stats=off;
    SET global tidb_analyze_skip_column_types="json,blob,mediumblob,longblob,mediumtext,longtext";
    SET global tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan=on;
    SET global tidb_max_chunk_size=128;
    SET @@global.tidb_enable_stmt_summary=0;
```

    ```

The following are additional configurations for `oltp_point_select` and `oltp_read_only` workloads:

- PD parameters:

    ```yaml
    [schedule]
    merge-schedule-limit = 0
    ```

- TiKV parameters:

    ```yaml
    [server]
    grpc-concurrency = 6
    ```

> - TiDB variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB system variables:
```

    ```sql

>     SET global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
>     SET global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
>     SET global tidb_use_plan_baselines=off;
>     SET global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_use_plan_baselines=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_executor_concurrency=1;
```

>     set global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
>     set global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
>     set global tidb_use_plan_baselines=off;
>     set global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SET global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
    SET global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
    SET global tidb_use_plan_baselines=off;
    SET global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;
```

    ```

The following are additional configurations for `oltp_write_only` and `oltp_read_write` workloads:

- TiKV parameters:

    ```yaml
    [server]
    grpc-concurrency = 6

>     [raftstore]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    [raftstore]
```

    apply-pool-size = 3
    store-pool-size = 3
    ```

> - TiDB variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB system variables:
```

    ```sql

>     SET global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
>     SET global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
>     SET global tidb_txn_assertion_level=off;
>     SET global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
>     SET global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_txn_assertion_level=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
    SET GLOBAL tidb_executor_concurrency=1;
```

>     set global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
>     set global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
>     set global tidb_txn_assertion_level=off;
>     set global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
>     set global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SET global tidb_enable_stmt_summary=off;
    SET global tidb_enable_collect_execution_info=off;
    SET global tidb_txn_assertion_level=off;
    SET global tidb_guarantee_linearizability=off;
    SET global tidb_executor_concurrency=1;
```

    ```

### Benchmark executor

The benchmark executor sends SQL queries to the TiDB cluster. In this test, its hardware configuration is as follows:

- Machine type: Amazon EC2 (us-west-2)
- Instance type: c6a.2xlarge
- Sysbench version: sysbench 1.0.20 (using bundled LuaJIT 2.1.0-beta2)

## Test steps

This section introduces how to perform the Sysbench performance test step by step.

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster that meets the [test environment](#tidb-cluster) requirements.

    For more information, see [Create a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

2. On the benchmark executor, connect to the newly created cluster and create a database named `sbtest`.

    To connect to the cluster, see [Connect to TiDB Cloud Dedicated via Private Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md).

    To create the `sbtest` database, execute the following SQL statement:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE sbtest;
    ```

3. Load Sysbench data to the `sbtest` database.

>     - The test in this document is implemented based on [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench). To install sysbench, see [Building and installing from source](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#building-and-installing-from-source).
> 
>     - Run the following `sysbench prepare` command to import 12 tables and 10,000,000 rows to the `sbtest` database. Replace `${HOST}`, `${PORT}`, `${THREAD}`, and `${PASSWORD}` with your actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. The test in this document is implemented based on [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench). To install sysbench, see [Building and installing from source](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#building-and-installing-from-source).

    2. Run the following `sysbench prepare` command to import 12 tables and 10,000,000 rows to the `sbtest` database. Replace `${HOST}`, `${PORT}`, `${THREAD}`, and `${PASSWORD}` with your actual values.
```

>         ```shell
>           sysbench \
>               --threads=${THREAD} \
>               --rand-type=uniform \
>               --db-driver=mysql \
>               --mysql-db=sbtest \
>               --mysql-host=${HOST} \
>               --mysql-port=${PORT} \
>               --mysql-user=root \
>               --tables=12 \
>               --table-size=10000000 \
>               --mysql-password=${PASSWORD} \
>               oltp_common prepare

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        ```shell
        sysbench \
            --threads=${THREAD} \
            --rand-type=uniform \
            --db-driver=mysql \
            --mysql-db=sbtest \
            --mysql-host=${HOST} \
            --mysql-port=${PORT} \
            --mysql-user=root \
            --tables=12 \
            --table-size=10000000 \
            --mysql-password=${PASSWORD} \
            oltp_common prepare
        ```
```
Remove two leading space characters before each line in the shell command.

>           for i in {1..12}; do
>           mysql -u root -h tidb-0 -P 4000 test -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
>           done
>         ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

        To verify the data import, run the following command:

        ```shell
        for i in {1..12}; do
          mysql -u root -h ${HOST} -P ${HOST} -p ${PASSWORD} sbtest -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
        done
        ```
````
- Move the `ANALYZE TABLE` step into a separate code block with a clearer description, making it more understandable for users to follow the steps
- Replace hardcode values with placeholders for better flexibility `mysql -u root -h ${HOST} -P ${HOST} -p ${PASSWORD}`
- Add the password parameter `-p ${PASSWORD}` for proper authentication

```diff
- mysql -u root -h tidb-0 -P 4000 test -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
+ mysql -u root -h tidb-0 -P 4000 subtest -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
```
@stevenayu Could you please help verify which database name we should use? `test` or `subtest`

Author: yes,  dbname is sbtest

>       ```shell
>         sysbench \
>             --threads=${THREAD} \
>             --rand-type=uniform \
>             --db-driver=mysql \
>             --mysql-db=sbtest \
>             --mysql-host=${HOST} \
>             --mysql-port=${PORT} \
>             --mysql-user=root \
>             --tables=12 \
>             --table-size=10000000 \
>             --mysql-password=${PASSWORD} \
>             oltp_common prepare
> 
>         for i in {1..12}; do
>         mysql -u root -h tidb-0 -P 4000 test -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
>         done
>       ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```shell
          sysbench \
              --threads=${THREAD} \
              --rand-type=uniform \
              --db-driver=mysql \
              --mysql-db=sbtest \
              --mysql-host=${HOST} \
              --mysql-port=${PORT} \
              --mysql-user=root \
              --tables=12 \
              --table-size=10000000 \
              --mysql-password=${PASSWORD} \
              oltp_common prepare

          for i in {1..12}; do
          mysql -u root -h tidb-0 -P 4000 test -e "ANALYZE TABLE sbtest$i"
          done
        ```
```

> 4. Run the following `sysbench run` command to warmup Sysbench performance tests on different workloads. Replace `${HOST}`, `${PORT}`, `${THREAD}`, and `${PASSWORD}` with your actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the following `sysbench run` command to warm up Sysbench performance tests on different workloads. Replace `${HOST}`, `${PORT}`, `${THREAD}`, and `${PASSWORD}` with your actual values.
```

        --mysql-user=root \
        --table-size=100000000 \
        --time=600 \
        --threads=$thread \
        oltp_read_only run
    done
    ```

    **oltp_write_only:**

    ```shell
    loads=(
        "--threads=100 --events=6000000"
        "--threads=200 --events=8000000"
        "--threads=400 --events=10000000"
    )
    for load in "${loads[@]}"; do
    sleep 60
    sysbench
        --rand-type=uniform \
        --db-driver=mysql \
        --mysql-db=sbtest \
        --mysql-host=${HOST}\
        --mysql-port=${PORT} \
        --tables=12 \
        --table-size=10000000 \
        --time=0\
        $load
        oltp_write_only run
    done
    ```

    **oltp_read_write:**

    ```shell
    loads=(
        "--threads=100 --events=6000000"
        "--threads=200 --events=8000000"
        "--threads=400 --events=10000000"
    )
    for load in "${loads[@]}"; do
    sleep 60
    sysbench
        --rand-type=uniform \
        --db-driver=mysql \
        --mysql-db=sbtest \
        --mysql-host=${HOST}\
        --mysql-port=${PORT} \
        --tables=12 \
        --table-size=10000000 \
        --time=0\
        $load
        oltp_read_write run
    done
    ```

> 6. Configure the tuning parameters above and rerun the command from step 5 to obtain performance data in tuning mode. Compare the performance results obtained from testing with the default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Configure [tuning parameters](#tuning-mode-configuration). Then, rerun the `sysbench run` command in step 5 to obtain performance results in tuning mode. Compare performance results in tuning mode with the results from the general mode.
```

## Test results

This section introduces the Sysbench performance of v8.5.0 in the [test environment](#test-environment).

### Point select performance

The performance on the `oltp_point_select` workload is as follows:

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning Mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Threads | General mode TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 32,081 | 2.00 | 33,038 | 1.89 |
| 100 | 60,086 | 2.11 | 63,383| 2.00 |
| 200 | 110,107 | 2.61 | 111,046 | 2.48 |

![Sysbench point select performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_point_select.png)

### Read only performance

The performance on the `oltp_read_only` workload is as follows:

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning Mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 2,099 | 28.67 | 2,064 | 29.19 |
| 100 | 3,924 | 30.81 | 3,843 | 30.81 |
| 200 | 5,658 | 44.17 | 5,893 | 43,39 |

> ![Sysbench read write performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_read_only.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Sysbench read only performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_read_only.png)
```

### Write only performance

The performance on the `oltp_write_only` workload is as follows:

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning Mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Threads | General mode TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 3,056 | 19.65 | 3,405 | 16.71 |
| 100 | 5,644 | 25.28 | 5,894 | 23.95 |
| 200 | 9,105 | 37.56 | 9,358 | 36.89 |

> ![Sysbench read write performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_write_only.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Sysbench write only performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_write_only.png)
```

### Read write performance

The performance on the `oltp_read_write` workload is as follows:

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning Mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

> | Threads |  TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Threads | General mode TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
```

|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 1,062 | 52.89 | 1,054  |52.89 |
| 100 | 1,819 | 63.32 | 1,811 | 63.32 |
| 200 | 2,293 | 110.66 | 2,219 | 116.80 |

> ![Sysbench update index performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_read_write.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Sysbench read write performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_read_write.png)
```

        $load
        oltp_read_write run
    done
    ```

6. Configure [tuning parameters](#tuning-mode-configuration). Then, rerun the `sysbench run` command in step 5 to obtain performance results in tuning mode. Compare performance results in tuning mode with the results from the general mode.

## Test results

This section introduces the Sysbench performance of v8.5.0 in the [test environment](#test-environment).

### Point select performance

The performance on the `oltp_point_select` workload is as follows:

| Threads | General mode TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 32,081 | 2.00 | 33,038 | 1.89 |
| 100 | 60,086 | 2.11 | 63,383| 2.00 |
| 200 | 110,107 | 2.61 | 111,046 | 2.48 |

![Sysbench point select performance](/media/tidb-cloud/v8.5.0_oltp_point_select.png)

### Read only performance

The performance on the `oltp_read_only` workload is as follows:

| Threads | General mode TPS | 95% latency (ms)| Tuning mode TPS | 95% latency (ms) |
|:--------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| 50 | 2,099 | 28.67 | 2,064 | 29.19 |
| 100 | 3,924 | 30.81 | 3,843 | 30.81 |

> | 200 | 5,658 | 44.17 | 5,893 | 43,39 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 200 | 5,658 | 44.17 | 5,893 | 43.39 |
```

    To connect to the cluster, see [Connect to TiDB Cloud Dedicated via Private Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md).

    To create the `sbtest` database, execute the following SQL statement:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE sbtest;
    ```

3. Load Sysbench data to the `sbtest` database.

    1. The test in this document is implemented based on [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench). To install sysbench, see [Building and installing from source](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#building-and-installing-from-source).

    2. Run the following `sysbench prepare` command to import 12 tables and 10,000,000 rows to the `sbtest` database. Replace `${HOST}`, `${PORT}`, `${THREAD}`, and `${PASSWORD}` with your actual values.

        ```shell
        sysbench \
            --threads=${THREAD} \
            --rand-type=uniform \
            --db-driver=mysql \
            --mysql-db=sbtest \
            --mysql-host=${HOST} \
            --mysql-port=${PORT} \
            --mysql-user=root \
            --tables=12 \
            --table-size=10000000 \
            --mysql-password=${PASSWORD} \
            oltp_common prepare
        ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
